hi I'm visiting today with panco Doherty
from work sharp and he's going to
demonstrate a new product that's out on
the market for sharpening knives and
fillet knives in particular hunting
knives those kind of things hey I've
seen this product and work and it's it's
a great tool so show us all works
alright thanks for asking me before I
start let me just say a couple things
about who we are we have the work sharp
line the other line we have is drill
doctor so if you've ever heard a drill
doctor it's a tool that sharpens drill
bits for those same people
we've been experts in sharpening for
about 35 years we decided to try our
hand at knife sharpening we worked on it
for a number of years and we think we've
come up with the way that knives should
be sharpened what we're aiming for our
customer is the guy that likes to get
outdoors and fish and hunt I mean Mike
you've asked me the data to really focus
on fishing so that's what I'm going to
do we know that it's important when
you're doing outdoor sports to have
sharp knives and so just to give you an
idea what we're talking about this is
I'm talking about really sharp knives so
that gives you an idea of what we're
talking about with sharp but we also
think that it's important to be able to
sharpen knives quickly so what we design
what we want to do when we design this
tool is create a knife sharpener
the sharpen knives quickly and where you
got a good result every time what we
came up with is a flexible belt system
and so what we have is a tool that
powers a flexible belt why flexible
belts because that's the way knives were
made in the first place if you go to a
knife shop they shape the knife and then
when they want to put the edge on the
knife they have a belt that's about 12
inches wide on a large machine and
individuals are putting that edge on or
putting the bevel on and then putting
the edge on so we thought why not use
that same system it's been a huge
advance and take
nology on the ability of flexible belts
to cut both go ahead and I think what we
see out in the marketplace for the
consumer is of course rotating stone
grinding wheels grinding wheels they
don't work as well do that well I don't
want to beat up the competition but they
are at a fixed angle and they tend to
grind your knife in a way where you get
a sound like and we think grinding
should be more subtle than that
so what's what we really have is
flexible belts and the reason they work
is that there's been huge advancements
in industrial abrasives and we've taken
advantage of that but instead of them
being on huge machines they're on this
little sharpener it's simple to use what
we have is is two guides come with the
unit a 40 degree guide and a 50 degree
guide if you have a thin bladed knife
like a kitchen knife or a fillet knife
then you use the 40 degree bevel if you
have a thick bladed knife like a gut
hook or your pocket knife then you would
use the 50 degree bill what you do is
you start with 220 grit that fits right
on there there's no way you can get on
no it's got to it's very easy you don't
have to screw it down you just put it on
it sits there and then I'll do is put
your knife against the outside of the
guide turn the machine on and pull it
through I'm gonna do this three times
each time I'm grinding on this side of
the night and then I'm just gonna run my
finger along the knife on this side
pushing up not down so it won't cut me
and what I'm doing is checking for a
bird
have I started to wrap the metal around
and that tells me I've reached the edge
on this filet knife I have so now I go
back to this side and do three
these three pastors will just even up
the bevel of the night now if this is a
regular kitchen knife that's tomato
sharp now if you're an outdoorsman or
something that we what I'd call rope
sharp it's gonna be great for cutting
that it doesn't have that real fine edge
on it that we want on our fillet knives
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
change abrasives we have a lock down
here so you just pull that pull off your
abrasives and put on the honing abrasive
now this is a six thousand grit micro
mesh so it's very fine and what we're
gonna do after we've installed that put
our guide back on and now we're just
going to home tonight
same process this time we don't have to
get to the burr because we know it's
already there on each side
all we're doing here is honing that
night right at the edge now we're just
taking away all this
now that knife would go through any
salmon any kind of fish you want to cut
but just to give you an idea of its
sharpness you can see how it just shaves
my arm and really that get rid of that
DNA that took what a couple minutes
that's the same process for every night
it's super sharper so how often would
you sharpen a knife like this a fillet
knife
well it's gonna sound funny but as often
as it needs it so if you started to get
unhappy with how that knife was cutting
then I wouldn't go through that first
step again I would just come back use
this honing belt and really and it's
gonna stay like that time and again it's
gonna be quite a while before you need
to go back to the 220 grit though I mean
it's super sharp light
I couldn't test that it's very sharp so
whether you're gonna do this for your
outdoor knives or you're gonna do it for
your kitchen knives once you get them
into this kind of shape then you just
keep this on your we either say we don't
really think it's a kitchen tool we
definitely don't we think it's in your
shop or in your garage but you could you
just periodically once every month maybe
you go out and you just go ahead and
reown your knives and they'll stay sharp
like this you know and one thing I know
talking about safety having a dolt
fillet knife is just very dangerous when
you're filleting a fish and you have to
struggle with the knife to fillet that's
when you slip and you cut yourself this
this will just slice right through we've
seen that time and again in the same
with vegetables or whatever you're
cutting
a good sharp knife it works well you
learn to appreciate it and it is safe
great well so where can where can we
order this product you can order it it's
easy as to order it directly from us
work sharp tools calm to work sharp
tools calm or you could come to our
website where sharp tools calm and just
search for where's their retailer close
to you it's sold by Amazon it's sold by
Northern Tool get sold by a number of
independent outdoor stores around the
country but it's easiest to come to us
and and of course the link for work
sharp is on Washington Lakes calm on the
products page so you can click there and
get to their website as well well Hank
thanks a lot for thanks showing us this
product that's great looks like it
really does the job on nice so I'm
looking forward to trying it out
appreciate the opportunity to demo it to
you and I think people will find that if
you've ever had trouble sharpening and
if you wanted sharp knives this is going
to solve that for you
and make it so you can always have
shortcuts right alright thanks a lot